Lena Pham
Answers generated using Copilot

Exercise 2: Header files for fprintf()
Answer: #include <stdio.h>

Exercise 3: Difference between fprintf() and printf() signatures? 
Answer: 
fprintf() signature: int fprintf(FILE *stream, const char *format, ...);
printf() signature: int printf(const char *format, ...);

The difference is that fprintf() takes a FILE *stream as the first argument,
which specifies where to write output. printf() only takes the format string
and arguments, and always writes to stdout.

Exercise 4: Difference between printf() and fprintf() functions?
Answer:
printf() writes formatted output to standard output (stdout).
fprintf() writes formatted output to a specified file stream (which can be
stdout, stderr, a file, or other I/O streams).

In essence, fprintf() is a more general version of printf() that provides
flexibility in choosing the output destination.

Exercise 5: Running hello_fprintf.c
Output:
Hello, world!

Exercise 7: Section number for system calls (man section)?
Answer: 2
(Section 2 contains system calls in the Linux man pages)

Exercise 8: Header file for write() system call?
Answer: #include <unistd.h>

Exercise 9: Copying hello_fprintf.c to hello_write.c
Answer: (blank as instructed)

Exercise 11: Modified hello_write.c output
Output:
Hello, world!

The program uses the write() system call instead of fprintf(). The key
differences are:
- Using STDOUT_FILENO instead of stdout file stream
- Passing the number of bytes to write (using strlen)
- write() is more low-level and byte-oriented

Exercise 10: Changing the third argument of write() to a larger value?
Answer:
If you change the third argument of write() to a much larger number (like 1000
or 10000), the behavior would be:
- The write() function attempts to read and output beyond the bounds of the actual message buffer
- This accesses uninitialized memory or data that doesn't belong to the intended message
- Garbage characters or random data may appear in the output
- This is undefined behavior in C and could potentially cause a segmentation fault or buffer overflow depending on memory layout

This happens because write() doesn't know where the buffer ends - it blindly
reads whatever number of bytes you tell it to. It trusts that you've given it
a valid count.

Exercise 11: When to use C library functions vs system calls?
Answer:
C Library Functions (like fprintf()):
- Use when: You need portability across different operating systems
- Use when: You want a higher-level, more convenient interface
- Use when: Writing general-purpose code that isn't OS-specific
- Advantages: Standardized, available everywhere, easier to use
- Example: Most data processing, text formatting, math operations

System Calls (like write()):
- Use when: You need direct access to operating system features
- Use when: Writing OS-specific code or kernel-level utilities
- Use when: Performance is critical and you want minimal overhead
- Use when: You need low-level control over I/O or system resources
- Advantages: More control, potentially faster, direct OS functionality
- Example: File system operations, process management, hardware access

As a software developer, I would use C library functions for most application
code to ensure portability and maintainability. I would use system calls when
building system utilities, optimizing performance-critical sections, or when
I specifically need features only the OS provides.

Exercise 12: hello.sh created
The script uses the echo command to print "Hello World!" to the terminal.
Output:
Hello World!
